tidb-in-kubernetes: add tidb scheduler document (#2062)
pingcap/docs: tidb-in-kubernetes/reference/components/tidb-scheduler.md

---
title: TiDB Scheduler
category: components

> Summary: Learn how TiDB Scheduler works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn what is TiDB Scheduler and how it works.
category: reference
```
To avoid small mistakes, please double-check the format every time you've done your translation.

---

# TiDB Scheduler

> This document introduces how TiDB Scheduler works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Scheduler is a TiDB implementation of [Kubernetes scheduler extender](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/design-proposals/scheduling/scheduler_extender.md). TiDB Scheduler is used to add new scheduling rules to Kubernetes. This document introduces these new scheduling rules and how TiDB Scheduler works.
```
Users might want to know first what is TiDB Scheduler and what TiDB Scheduler does, so I add two sentences to improve this introduction paragraph. 

Please review my suggestions. @weekface

> This documents introduces how TiDB Scheduler works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document introduces how TiDB Scheduler works.
```

## TiDB cluster scheduling requirements

> The TiDB cluster includes three key components: PD, TiKV, and TiDB. Each consists of multiple nodes: PD is a Raft cluster, and TiKV is a multi-group Raft cluster. Both components are stateful. Therefore, the default scheduling rules of the Kubernetes (K8s) scheduler can no longer meet the TiDB cluster scheduling requirements. To extend the K8s scheduling rules, the TiDB Operator implements the following customized scheduling rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A TiDB cluster includes three key components: PD, TiKV, and TiDB. Each consists of multiple nodes: PD is a Raft cluster, and TiKV is a multi-group Raft cluster. PD and TiKV components are stateful. Therefore, the default scheduling rules of the Kubernetes (K8s) scheduler can no longer meet the TiDB cluster scheduling requirements. To extend the K8s scheduling rules, TiDB Scheduler implements the following customized scheduling rules:
```
原文是“TiDB Operator 实现了如下几种自定义的调度规则”，但本文是在说“TiDB Scheduler”，是否可以说“TiDB Scheduler 实现了如下几种自定义的调度规则”？ @weekface

> ### PD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### PD component
```

Make sure that the number of PDs scheduled on each Node is less than `Replicas / 2`, for example:

| PD cluster size (Replicas) | Maximum number of PDs scheduled on each node |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| 1  | 1  |
| 2  | 1  |
| 3  | 1  |
| 4  | 1  |
| 5  | 2  |
| ...  |   |

> ### TiKV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TiKV component
```

If the number of K8s nodes is less than three (In this case, TiKV is not highly available), arbitrary schedule is supported; otherwise, the formula for calculating the number of TiKV schedulable on each node is: Ceil (Replicas / 3), for example:

| TiKV cluster size (Replicas) | Maximum number of TiKVs scheduled on each node | Best scheduling distribution |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 3  | 1  | 1,1,1  |
| 4  | 2  | 1,1,2  |
| 5  | 2  | 1,2,2  |
| 6  | 2  | 2,2,2  |
| 7  | 3  | 2,2,3  |
| 8  | 3  | 2,3,3  |
| ...  |   |   |

> ### TiDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TiDB component
```

> Stable scheduling is achieved. In the case of TiDB rolling upgrade, it tends to be scheduled back to the original nodes. This is helpful for the scenario of manually mounting Node IP and NodePort on the LB backend. It avoids rearranging the LB when the Node IP is changed after the upgrade, thereby reducing the impact on the cluster during rolling upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scheduling rule 3: When you perform a rolling upgrade to a TiDB instance, the instance tends to be scheduled back to its original node. 

This ensures stable scheduling and is helpful for the scenario of manually mounting Node IP and NodePort to the LB backend. It can reduce the impact on the cluster during the rolling upgrade because you do not need to rearrange the LB when the Node IP is changed after the upgrade.
```

## How TiDB Scheduler works

![TiDB Scheduler Overview](/media/tidb-scheduler-overview.png)

> TiDB Scheduler adds customized scheduling rules through K8s [Scheduler extender](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/design-proposals/scheduling/scheduler_extender.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Scheduler adds customized scheduling rules by implementing K8s [Scheduler extender](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/design-proposals/scheduling/scheduler_extender.md).
```

> The TiDB Scheduler component is deployed as one or more Pods, though only one Pod is working at the same time. Two Containers inside the Pod are implemented as a K8s scheduler extender: one is a native `kube-scheduler`, and the other is a `tidb-scheduler`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TiDB Scheduler component is deployed as one or more Pods, though only one Pod is working at the same time. Each Pod has two Containers inside: one Container is a native `kube-scheduler`, and the other is a `tidb-scheduler` implemented as a Kubernetes scheduler extender.
```

> The `.spec.schedulerName` attribute of all Pods created by the TiDB Operator is set to `tidb-scheduler`. This means that the TiDB Scheduler is used for customized scheduling. Change `.spec.schedulerName` into `default-scheduler` to use the built-in K8s scheduler, in the case that testing the cluster does not require high availability. The scheduling process for a Pod is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.spec.schedulerName` attribute of all Pods created by the TiDB Operator is set to `tidb-scheduler`. This means that the TiDB Scheduler is used for the scheduling. 

If you are using a testing cluster and do not require high availability, you can change `.spec.schedulerName` into `default-scheduler` to use the built-in K8s scheduler. 

The scheduling process of a Pod is as follows:
```

> - Each Pod is filtered using the default K8s scheduling rules. `kube-scheduler` pulls all Pods that match the criteria: the value of `.spec.schedulerName` is `tidb-scheduler`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- First, `kube-scheduler` pulls all Pods whose `.spec.schedulerName` is `tidb-scheduler`. And Each Pod is filtered using the default K8s scheduling rules.
```

> - `kube-scheduler` sends a request to the `tidb-scheduler` service. Then `tidb-scheduler` filters Nodes through the customized scheduling rules (as mentioned above), and returns schedulable Nodes to `kube-scheduler`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Then, `kube-scheduler` sends a request to the `tidb-scheduler` service. Then `tidb-scheduler` filters the sent nodes through the customized scheduling rules (as mentioned above), and returns schedulable nodes to `kube-scheduler`.
```

> - Finally, `kube-scheduler` determines the Nodes to be scheduled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Finally, `kube-scheduler` determines the nodes to be scheduled.
```

Reviewer: Is it necessary to capitalize the word "Node"？ @weekface

---
title: TiDB Scheduler
summary: Learn what is TiDB Scheduler and how it works.
category: reference
---

# TiDB Scheduler

TiDB Scheduler is a TiDB implementation of [Kubernetes scheduler extender](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/design-proposals/scheduling/scheduler_extender.md). TiDB Scheduler is used to add new scheduling rules to Kubernetes. This document introduces these new scheduling rules and how TiDB Scheduler works.

## TiDB cluster scheduling requirements

A TiDB cluster includes three key components: PD, TiKV, and TiDB. Each consists of multiple nodes: PD is a Raft cluster, and TiKV is a multi-group Raft cluster. PD and TiKV components are stateful. Therefore, the default scheduling rules of the Kubernetes (K8s) scheduler can no longer meet the TiDB cluster scheduling requirements. To extend the K8s scheduling rules, TiDB Scheduler implements the following customized scheduling rules:

### PD component

Scheduling rule 1: Make sure that the number of PD instances scheduled on each node is less than `Replicas / 2`. For example:

> | ------------- | ------------- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PD cluster size (Replicas) | Maximum number of PD instances scheduled on each node |
| ------------- | ------------- |
```

---
title: TiDB Scheduler
summary: Learn what is TiDB Scheduler and how it works.
category: reference
---

# TiDB Scheduler

TiDB Scheduler is a TiDB implementation of [Kubernetes scheduler extender](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/design-proposals/scheduling/scheduler_extender.md). TiDB Scheduler is used to add new scheduling rules to Kubernetes. This document introduces these new scheduling rules and how TiDB Scheduler works.

## TiDB cluster scheduling requirements

A TiDB cluster includes three key components: PD, TiKV, and TiDB. Each consists of multiple nodes: PD is a Raft cluster, and TiKV is a multi-group Raft cluster. PD and TiKV components are stateful. Therefore, the default scheduling rules of the Kubernetes (K8s) scheduler can no longer meet the TiDB cluster scheduling requirements. To extend the K8s scheduling rules, TiDB Scheduler implements the following customized scheduling rules:

### PD component

> Scheduling rule 1: Make sure that the number of PD replicas scheduled on each node is less than `Replicas / 2`. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scheduling rule 1: Make sure that the number of PD instances scheduled on each node is less than `Replicas / 2`. For example:
```

> Scheduling rule 1: Make sure that the number of PD replicas scheduled on each node is less than `Replicas / 2`. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| ------------- | ------------- |
| 1  | 1  |
| 2  | 1  |
| 3  | 1  |
| 4  | 1  |
| 5  | 2  |
| ...  |   |

### TiKV component

> Scheduling rule 2: If the number of K8s nodes is less than three (In this case, TiKV is not highly available), arbitrary scheduling is supported; otherwise, the number of TiKV replicas that can be scheduled on each node must be `ceil(Replicas / 3)`. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scheduling rule 2: If the number of K8s nodes is less than three (In this case, TiKV is not highly available), arbitrary scheduling is supported; otherwise, the number of TiKV instances that can be scheduled on each node must be `ceil(Replicas / 3)`. For example:
```

> | TiKV cluster size (Replicas) | Maximum number of TiKV replicas scheduled on each node | Best scheduling distribution |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TiKV cluster size (Replicas) | Maximum number of TiKV instances scheduled on each node | Best scheduling distribution |
```
